Add readarr (#43)
liaralabs/docs.swizzin.ltd: docs/applications/readarr.mdx

---
id: readarr
title: Readarr
sidebar_label: Readarr
---

> Readarr is a ebook (and maybe eventually magazine/audiobook) collection manager for Usenet and BitTorrent users. It can monitor multiple RSS feeds for new books from your favorite authors and will grab, sort and rename them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Readarr is an ebook (and maybe eventually magazine/audiobook) collection manager for Usenet and BitTorrent users. It can monitor multiple sources (RSS, Torznab, etc.) for new books from your favorite authors and will grab, sort and rename them for you.
```

Author: RSS is the torznab or usenet, etc feed.

RSS is not a unique feed

> :::danger
> Readarr is in the early stages of development and is considered alpha. Install and use with caution.
> :::

Reviewer: Hope you guys are fine with this
```suggestion
:::danger
Readarr is in the early stages of development and is considered alpha.
Please make sure to check in the [Readarr Discord](https://discord.gg/rkEXY2Rbgn) about any issues you might face with the **application**.
Anything else can go into the swizzin discord.
Install and use with caution.
:::
```

## Initial Setup

Installing Readarr is easy. Simply issue the following command:

```bash main
sudo box install readarr
```

This command will configure readarr for your user.

## How to Access

> After Readarr has been installed, it will be available for access at `https://<hostname.ltd>/readarr`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After Readarr has been installed, it will be available for access at `https://<hostname.ltd>/readarr`.

If you don't use `nginx`, you can find it on port `8787`.
```

## Service Management

The Readarr service is managed by systemd and has been configured for single user usage. You can find the service file here:

```
/etc/systemd/system/readarr.service
```

import SystemdTabs from '../snippets/systemdtabs.mdx';

<SystemdTabs service="readarr"/>

## Configuration

Out of the box, Readarr comes with no configuration. Following are some basic tasks to help get your client up and running:

### Add a new book (and your first root directory)

1. At the top, click Library.
2. Click `Add New`
3. Type the name, ibsn, or asin of the book or author's name that you want to add
4. In Root Folder choose `Add a new path`. Enter the path for the folder you wish to add your Readarr books to.
  - e.g. `/home/<username>/media/books`
5. Change the other settings to your own needs

> 6. Click the green `Add {book/author}` to add the book/author.

Reviewer: Maybe moving this to the arr wiki?

Author: once the ARR wiki is built out we can.

---
id: readarr
title: Readarr
sidebar_label: Readarr
---

> Readarr is an ebook (and maybe eventually magazine/audiobook) collection manager for Usenet and BitTorrent users. It can monitor multiple RSS feeds for new books from your favorite authors and will grab, sort and rename them.

Author: ```Readarr is an ebook and audiobook collection manager for Usenet and BitTorrent users. It can monitor multiple RSS feeds for new books from your favorite authors and will grab, sort, and rename them. Note that only one type of a given book is supported. If you want both an audiobook and ebook of a given book you will need multiple instances.```

:::danger

> Readarr is in the early stages of development and is considered alpha.

Author: remove

## How to Access

After Readarr has been installed, it will be available for access at `https://<hostname.ltd>/readarr`.

If you don't use `nginx`, you can find it on port `8787`.

## Service Management

The Readarr service is managed by systemd and has been configured for single user usage. You can find the service file here:

```
/etc/systemd/system/readarr.service
```

import SystemdTabs from '../snippets/systemdtabs.mdx';

<SystemdTabs service="readarr"/>

## Configuration

Out of the box, Readarr comes with no configuration. Following are some basic tasks to help get your client up and running:

### Add a new book (and your first root directory)

1. At the top, click Library.
2. Click `Add New`
3. Type the name, ibsn, or asin of the book or author's name that you want to add
4. In Root Folder choose `Add a new path`. Enter the path for the folder you wish to add your Readarr books to.
  - e.g. `/home/<username>/media/books`
5. Change the other settings to your own needs
6. Click the green `Add {book/author}` to add the book/author.

### Connect download clients
import Conn4Arrs from '../snippets/conn4arr.mdx';

<Conn4Arrs />

> ### Add an indexer with Jackett

Author: needs Prowlarr section

> Readarr only supports a few trackers out of the box, but the indexers can be expanded by using the application [Jackett](jackett.mdx). To add an indexer with Jackett, use the following steps.

Author: mention prowlarr as well

:::note
By default, when receiving the torznab feed from Jackett, it will need to be modified to be connected with the application. The default link looks like:

```plaintext
https://<yourhostname.ltd>/jackett/api/v2.0/indexers/yourtracker/results/torznab/
```

We need to edit this link to **remove https** and **add the port number**. Thus, if your port number was `12345`, your edited URL would look like this:

```plaintext
http://<yourhostname.ltd>:12345/jackett/api/v2.0/indexers/yourtracker/results/torznab/
```
:::

1. Go to `Settings > Indexers` and click `+` to add a new indexer.
2. Under `Torrent` choose `Torznab`
3. Use the settings:
```plaintext main
Name: <tracker name>
URL: <click copy torznab feed in jackett and modify as per above>
API: <copy and paste from jackett UI>
```
4. Click `Test`. If all is good, click `Save`.

### Other tasks

You may wish to further alter your setup by setting quality profiles or setting up post-processing so that media is automatically transferred to your Readarr library when your torrents or usenet are completed. 

> If you need further help, you can refer to the [Readarr Wiki](https://wiki.servarr.com/Readarr) and [Readarr FAQ](https://wiki.servarr.com/Readarr_FAQ)/

Author: ``If you need further help, you can refer to the [Readarr Wiki](https://wiki.servarr.com/readarr) and [Readarr FAQ](https://wiki.servarr.com/readarr/faq)/```
